The Crypto Anarchist Manifesto
by Timothy C. May
1988

A specter is haunting the modern world, the specter of crypto anarchy.

Computer technology is on the verge of providing the ability for individuals and groups to communicate and interact with each other in a totally anonymous manner. Two persons may exchange messages, conduct business, and negotiate electronic contracts without ever knowing the True Name, or legal identity, of the other.

Interactions over networks will be untraceable, via extensive re-routing of encrypted packets and tamper-proof boxes which implement cryptographic protocols with nearly perfect assurance against any tampering.

These developments will alter completely the nature of government regulation, the ability to tax and control economic interactions, the ability to keep information secret, and will even alter the nature of trust and reputation.

The technology for this revolution—and it surely will be both a social and economic revolution—has existed in theory for the past decade. The methods are based upon public-key encryption, zero-knowledge interactive proof systems, and various software protocols for interaction, authentication, and verification.

The focus has until now been on academic conferences in Europe and the U.S., conferences monitored closely by agents of NSA and other police organizations, because they see that the implications are deeply threatening to the status quo.

Socially, the impact of crypto-anarchy will be similar to that of the printing press. Like the printing press, crypto-anarchy will alter the nature of economic transactions, of information flow, and of social interactions.

Crypto-anarchy will create a liquid market for any and all material which can be put into words and pictures.

And just as the printing press altered and reduced the power of medieval guilds and the social power structure, so too will cryptologic methods fundamentally alter the nature of corporations and of government interference in economic transactions.

Combined with emerging information markets, crypto-anarchy will allow for a very fluid market for any and all material.

Crypto anarchy will allow for anonymous economic transactions and decentralized networks that resist regulation and control.
